Concept + endpoint documentation for the Geostore service (#158)
resource-watch/doc-api: source/includes/api/_geostore.md

# Geostore

> ***Note — This is the documentation for version 1 of the Geostore microservice, the latest version is [version 2](https://resource-watch.github.io/doc-api/index-rw.html#geoStore-v2).***

Reviewer: Right now the differences between the two files seem to be minimal, and AFAIK functionally they are too. Any chance we can merge the two files and DRY things?

Author: Removed.

## What is Geostore

> Geostore is a database for storing geoStore objects which contain geographic data structures described using the [GeoJSON](https://geojson.org/) schema. GeoJSON supports the following geometry types: `Point`, `LineString`, `Polygon`, `MultiPoint`, `MultiLineString`, and `MultiPolygon`. Geometric objects with additional properties are `Feature` objects. Sets of features are contained by `FeatureCollection` objects.

Reviewer: I'd suggest something like: 

`A geostore is an object which contain geographic data structures described using the GeoJSON schema. If you are new to GeoJSON, you can read a quick description on its [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoJSON), or you can read the full specification on its [official page](https://geojson.org/). `

The official page only has the spec, nobody will read that :P

Author: Moved this information to concept/_geostore.md. In my opinion, from a GIS user perspective, understanding something about the specifics of GeoJSON and how this relates to the design considerations of Geostore is important. I gave 3 options of varying complexity; overview article focused on developers, links to JSON schema, and the full spec. Also highlighted the important things to consider. see concept/_geostore.md

> The Geostore microservice provides a comprehensive way to communicate geographic data structures between platforms and microservices. It enables users to [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) geographic data structures from the Geostore, and query information about a geoStore object, such as the bounding box of all its' geometries.

Reviewer: I get the idea between using the CRUD term, but I don't think it applies here - I think you cant delete geostores, and updates are limited AFAIK. I think this may ultimately be misleading to readers

Author: Changed this section to be simpler and more readable. Removed reference to CRUD.

This documentation describes the Geostore microservice in two sections:

- First we give an [overview of the available endpoints](#overview-of-available-endpoints) that allow you to [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) geoStore objects.
- Next we describe the [structure and properties of Geostore objects](#geostore-objects-and-properties).

> After viewing the documentation below, consider looking at the Geostore tutorial for a step-by-step guide to rendering an actual geoStore object on a web application.

Reviewer: this should have a link to the corresponding section

Author: Removed this reference. We can add a link to tutorial when one is made.

> ***Remember — All of the Geostore endpoints do not require that users are authenticated.***

Reviewer: remove this please, let's not document things the user _doesn't_ need

Author: Removed.

To find out more about accessing the geostore objects already available on the RW API, check out the documentation on [getting geostore objects](#getting-geostore-objects). A quick, visual way to view an existing geostore is by using the [`/geostore/:id/view`](#get-geostore-by-geostore-id-and-view-at-geojson-io) endpoint.

You can also [create you own geostore objects](#create-a-geostore-object) on the RW API, if you'd like to share your data with the world, or if you are looking to use the RW API and its features to gain insights into your data.

## What are Geostore objects

Geostore objects contain [GeoJSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoJSON) `FeatureCollection` objects (`geojson`), with a single `Feature` whose `Geometry` has been checked for geometric validity, and have been assigned an identifier (`id`, `hash`) upon creation.

This identifier is a 128-bit hash generated by passing the [pre-processed GeoJSON string](#geostore) through the [MD5 message-digest algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5). This means that each identifier is a unique fingerprint of the GeoJSON string.

> So if you add an exact copy of your GeoJSON string it will generate the same hash, but if the GeoJSON string is changed in any way it will have a different hash. Hence, the Geostore identifier provides the RW API a way to ensure that platforms and microservices are using *exactly* the same geographic structures. *Note changes in the Geostore id may also represent changes in other  GeoJSON properties, not only the `Geometry`*

Reviewer 2: If the id is generated from the GeoJSON, does this mean geostore objects are static and can't be modified? If so, I would point that out here.

Reviewer 3: That's right, thanks for pointing out - I have reworded this paragraph and added the missing piece of information.

| `lock`     | string | Optional indication if the object is locked for editing                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `areaHa`   | number | Optional total surface area in hectares of all Polygon and MultiPolygon geometries in the GeoJSON object.                                                                                                                                             |
| `bbox`     | array  | Array describing the [minimum bounding box](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_bounding_box) enclosing all of the geometries in the GeoJSON object, expressed as an array of the form min Longitude , min Latitude , max Longitude , max Latitude. |
| `info`     | object | Object that defines application specific properties, for example used for indexing or related to editing of the geostore object.                                                                                                                      |

## Overview of available endpoints

> The RW APIs Geostore feature has a number of endpoints to help users interact with geostore objects. Many of them are essentially helpers to make it easy to access geometries from useful data sources, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Geostore API consists of a number of endpoints to help users interact with geostore objects. Many of them are essentially helpers to make it easy to access geometries from useful data sources, such as:
```

> Comparison of endpoint versions

| Version | Description       |
|---------|------------------ |
| `v1`    | GADM version 2.8. |
| `v2`    | GADM version 3.6. |

> Overview of endpoints

| Method | Path                                | Description                                                                   |
|--------|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| POST   | `/v1/geostore`                      | [Create a geostore object](#create-a-geostore-object)                         |
| GET    | `/v2/geostore/:id`                  | [Get a geostore object by Geostore id](#get-a-geostore-object-by-geostore-id) |
| POST   | `/v2/geostore/find-by-ids`          | [Get geostore objects by Geostore ids](#get-geostore-objects-by-geostore-ids) |
| GET    | `/v2/geostore/:id/view`             | [Get a geostore object by Geostore id and view at GeoJSON.io](#get-a-geostore-object-by-geostore-id-and-view-at-geojson-io) |
| GET    | `/v2/geostore/admin/list`           | [Get all Geostore ids, names and country codes](#get-all-geostore-ids-names-and-country-codes) |

> | GET    | `/v2/geostore/admin/:iso`           | [Get a geostore object by country code](#get-country-code)                    |

Reviewer: Cant seem to find docs for this particular endpoint

Reviewer 3: Link was incorrect, fixed

Error code     | Error message       | Description
-------------- | ------------------- | -----------------------------------------------
404            | Geostore not found. | A geostore with the id provided was not found.

### Get all Geostore ids, names and country codes

All of the Geostore ids, names, and country ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 code values available from the GADM data source in the Geostore can be retrieved via the GET `geostore/admin/list` endpoint, which returns an array of objects with the properties `geostoreId`, `name`, and `iso`.

> Example URL request

```shell
curl -X GET https://api.resourcewatch.org/v2/geostore/admin/list
```

> Example response

```json
{
    "data": [{
        "geostoreId": "35a6d982388ee5c4e141c2bceac3fb72",
        "iso": "ESP",
        "name": "Spain"
    }, {
        "geostoreId": "8f77fe62cf15d5098ba0ee11c5126aa6",
        "iso": "FRA",
        "name": "France"
    }, {
        "geostoreId": "1d568c183033da6c17cc28c4aecf1bcf",
        "iso": "cod",
        "name": "Democratic Republic of the Congo"
    }]
}
```

*Note - This endpoint does not return a unique array of iso codes and names.*

> ### Get geostore by country code

Reviewer 2: I would put all of these (country code, ADM1, ADM2, WDPA, land use type) in their own section called something like "Getting predefined geostores for commonly used geometries". Point out that this is essentially a repository of useful geometries that is provided as a utility function of sorts. The fact that they are stored with the same underlying mechanism as custom geostores is really just a technical matter.

> Geostore objects can be retrieved via the GET `geostore/admin/:iso` endpoint, which returns a single object selected from the Geostore using a single  country [ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) (`<iso>`). The returned geometries can be simplified using the parameter `?simplify=<value>`. Where `<value>` is given to the simplification algorithm, 0.005 usually works well.

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear, the geostore that's returned is the boundary of the given country, right? This wording really doesn't make that clear.

Reviewer 3: Yes, that's right - I have reworded the initial paragraphs of all these endpoints (getting geostores by country code, ADM1, ADM2, WDPA, land use type) so they are a bit clearer about the returned data.

> Example URL request

```shell
curl -X GET https://api.resourcewatch.org/v2/geostore/admin/list
```

> Example response

```json
{
    "data": [{
        "geostoreId": "35a6d982388ee5c4e141c2bceac3fb72",
        "iso": "ESP",
        "name": "Spain"
    }, {
        "geostoreId": "8f77fe62cf15d5098ba0ee11c5126aa6",
        "iso": "FRA",
        "name": "France"
    }, {
        "geostoreId": "1d568c183033da6c17cc28c4aecf1bcf",
        "iso": "cod",
        "name": "Democratic Republic of the Congo"
    }]
}
```

*Note - This endpoint does not return a unique array of iso codes and names.*

## Getting predefined geostores for commonly used geometries

The endpoints described below allow API users to retrieve geostores representative of the boundaries of countries, GADM admin regions, WDPA and land use areas. These endpoints can be used as utility methods to retrieve commonly used geometries.

### Get geostore by country code

> Example request pattern

```shell

> curl -X GET https://api.resourcewatch.org/v2/geostore/admin/<iso>simplify=<value>

Reviewer: this URL is wrong,please review the  simplify param

Reviewer 3: Removed :+1:
